# Release

It is almost time to release your game!

Create a developer account on Itch.io and make a page for your game. You do not have to use your real name when uploading the game, and may keep the game unlisted if you so desire.

**Do not set your game to public until it is complete!**

### Step 1: Market research

Search for the top 10 most popular games in your genre on Itch.io.

Look at 5 that are most similar to your game.

How do they represent themselves?
-	What elements are on their page?
- What do they say about the game?
-	What screenshots do they show?
-	What colours do they use?
-	What makes you want to play the game?
-	Anything else that catches your eye?
-	How does their cover image look? (Image in the store page)

### Step 2: Build your page

Always be honest about your game. Don't advertise features you didn't implement.

Use the [Itch template](https://hedgiespresso.itch.io/itch-page-image-templates) as a guide on how your page will look.

Fill in all the details, in particular:

-	Set release status to Prototype. This will let people know what to expect.
-	Make sure to use a catchy description. Try to get people interested without making promises you can't keep.
-	If you used AI, press the AI button. You should add a section to your description detailing how AI was used.
-	Add some screenshots to represent your game.
-	Create a strong cover image. This is for most people the only thing they will ever see! (Feel free to reuse game assets)

### Step 3: Prepare your build

Make an executable of your game.

-	Build in release mode.
-	Test your final build.
- Make sure it has a fitting icon.
- Only add the files necessary to run your game!
  
Add a file with acknowledgements for all the assets you have used. Also don't forget to credit your team (optionally pseudonimized)

Place them in a zip and upload them with a fitting title.

If you want to release for multiple platforms you can upload multiple zips.

### Step 4: Release!

The moment your game is ready it is time to publish!

The moment you publish your game everyone will be able to see your work!*

The ideal time to publish is in the early evening Dutch time. Around this time both people in Europe and North/South Amwerica are awake to see your game.

**Make a post in at least the class teams channel to announce your release!**

#### You are now a published game developer!




**Unless set to be unlisted*
